---
title: oyasumi
date: 2026-03-24
slug: goodnight-punpun
---

i think my success rate for recommending oyasumi punpun to other people in my life is around 5%. why it's so low i'm not sure, it seems to be quite infamous. not that it can be compared one to one, but i believe that matches my recommendation success rate for human centipede. and arguably it's a lot easier to stomach than human centipede was for me the first time around.

oyasumi punpun may be my favorite overall manga. i mean, i would say it fits into my top 5 pieces of writing of all time, probably even top 5 general pieces of media/entertainment. along with la la land its probably one of the things in my life that form who i am today.

i think i found out about both la la land and oyasumi punpun around the same time in my life, in 6th grade ish. 

while not to say that stories are usually sugarcoated, and also not to say that a story being darker makes it more realistic, i enjoy how oyasumi punpun isn't afraid to touch sensitive topics that frankly a lot of pieces of media try and avoid. like i said, having dark topics in your story doesn't make it feel more realistic, but seeing how punpun grows with these events and interacts with his world is really what makes it feel so lived in to me. 

punpuns life is also compacted well while still developing so many characters beautifully. some stories do this over wayyyy longer chapter lengths, something like naruto is 10 times the length and leaves me feeling similarly attached to the main characters. seeing punpun grow up in 170 chapters is really a sweet spot for me because i can return and reread it in a day or so (if i really feel like it). 

i watched marty supreme and in a way the ending felt pretty similar to punpun. except i guess we don't know if the punpun ending is truly what happened or not. unreliable narrator. i guess in a way marty supreme is like that too, you have to interpret martys tears with what you see in the content of the movie. 

it's been quite the long time since my last entry here, so thanks for reading this if anyone is still checking around here.. i have a rss feed now: https://jkwon.co/rss.xml

c yaaaaaaaaaa
